Now that the data has been prepared for
analysis,
it's time to see what conclusions
we can draw from the experiment.
Imagine you observe that the treatment
average is higher than the control
average.
How can we be sure this
result wasn't random?
In other words, how can we be sure that
the difference we see in the test,
actually exists in
the entire population?
A randomized design experiment is
analyzed using a test of means analysis.
A tests of means is a statistical
calculation of whether the mean values
of the treatment and
control groups are the same.
Or, in other words, is there
a statistical difference in the results,
or not?
The first thing to look at,
is the target variable average for
both the treatment and control groups.
This will give us an idea about
the magnitude of the impact
by the treatment.
Similar to linear regression, a test
of means analysis included a T-test,
which gives you a P-value.
Just like in linear regression,
the P-value tells you the likelihood
that the actual difference
between the means is 0.
Generally, if the P-value is below 0.05,
indicating a confidence interval of 95%,
the difference in means is considered
statistically significant.
Using a T-test is especially important
when working with smaller datasets.
Seemingly large differences in means
are much more likely the result
of random variation than small datasets.
Let's take a look at an example.